feat: add CI/CD blueprint (#59)
camunda/camunda-platform-tutorials: solutions/ci-cd/README.md

# CI/CD Pipeline
**Technical level:** Complex
<br>
**Industry:** Any
<br>
**Use Cases:** Modeler Building Blocks

## Summary

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Camunda can also be used to orchestrate your process development lifecycle (PDLC), covering all steps from change reviews to release activities.
```

> This blueprint demonstrates a CI/CD pipeline for deploying a file to different environments using GitLab and Camunda Platform 8.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This blueprint demonstrates a customizable CI/CD pipeline for deploying a file to different environments using GitLab and Camunda Platform 8.
```

During the process, a pull request is created in the target repository, which, when merged, triggers the deployment to the development environment.
For deploying to the stage and production environments, custom pipeline runs have to be triggered.

## How to use

### Set up Camunda 8 cluster

#### SaaS

> 1. In [Console](https://console.cloud.camunda.io), navigate to the "Organization" > "Administration API".

Reviewer: FYI: My first thought when reading this is the cost of maintenance. If you can link to docs page, you will not have to maintain it (although the user experience might not be so good)

I don't have a recommendation on which path to follow though

| `PROD_WEB_MODELER_WEBHOOK_SECRET` | The secret you want to use for the webhook reporting back to the blueprint. Defaults to use the same secret as configured [above](#Set-up-webhook). |

### Generate an access token

1. Navigate to "Settings > Access Tokens" and create a new token for the repository you want to use the blueprint in:
    * Scopes: `api`, `write_repository`
    * Roles: `Developer`
2. Save the token as a new connector secret `GITLAB_PAT` within your cluster.

### Run the blueprint

You can either [start the blueprint via Camunda Tasklist](https://docs.camunda.io/docs/next/components/modeler/web-modeler/run-or-publish-your-process/#publish-to-tasklist) or via running it [directly in Web Modeler](https://docs.camunda.io/docs/next/components/modeler/web-modeler/run-or-publish-your-process/#run-manually-from-modeler).
Additionally, on Camunda 8 SaaS, you can use[ the public link of the blueprint's start event](https://docs.camunda.io/docs/next/components/modeler/web-modeler/run-or-publish-your-process/#publish-via-a-public-form) to start a new instance of the blueprint.

> After starting a process instance, it will create a pull request with the contents of the target folder in the target repository.

Reviewer: If this isn't a dropdown, then the user should get instructions on how to find the folder ID

Author: Added some information plus a screenshot

When you merge the pull request, the folder contents will be deployed to the development environment via [the `deploy_to_dev` job within the pipeline](./gitlab-pipeline/.gitlab-ci.yml).
To check the status of the process, you can always use [Camunda Operate](https://docs.camunda.io/docs/next/components/operate/operate-introduction/) to have a look at the status of the process.
Operate should indicate with blue colored sequence flows the where to process went and mark the current activity with a green circle:

![Operate Process Instance](./readme-screenshots/operate-process-instance.png)

For deploying to the stage environment, create a custom pipeline run via "Build > Pipelines > Run pipeline" and additionally pass a variable `ENVIRONMENT` with the value `stage` to the pipeline run:

![Deploy to staging environment](./readme-screenshots/gitlab-custom-pipeline.png)

For deploying to the production environment, pass a variable `ENVIRONMENT` with the value `prod` to the pipeline run.

## Known Limitations

> * Concurrent runs of the blueprint are not supported. This means that if you start the blueprint while another instance is still running, deployment information might be mixed between the two instances.

Reviewer: We should be very clear that this is fully customizable, so this is a good place to discuss other limitations you've run into
For example, it's a great place to mention GitHub's limitations around base64 encoding

Author: Great point! Added this limitation and another sentence to the introduction: "The blueprint is designed to be used with GitLab, but can be adapted to work with other CI/CD tools."

# CI/CD Pipeline
**Technical level:** Complex
<br>
**Industry:** Any
<br>
**Use Cases:** Modeler Building Blocks

## Summary

Camunda can also be used to orchestrate your process development life cycle (PDLC), covering all steps from change reviews to release activities.

> This blueprint demonstrates a customizable CI/CD pipeline for deploying a file to different environments using GitLab and Camunda Platform 8.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This blueprint demonstrates a customizable CI/CD pipeline for deploying a file to different environments using GitLab and Camunda Platform 8. To learn more about the topic, review [Integrate Web Modeler into CI/CD](https://docs.camunda.io/docs/guides/devops-lifecycle/integrate-web-modeler-in-ci-cd/)
```

During the process, a pull request is created in the target repository, which, when merged, triggers the deployment to the development environment.
For deploying to the stage and production environments, custom pipeline runs have to be triggered.
The blueprint is designed to be used with GitLab, but can be adapted to work with other CI/CD tools.

## How to use

### Set up Camunda 8 cluster

#### SaaS

1. Create an API client [as described in the documentation](https://docs.camunda.io/docs/next/apis-tools/web-modeler-api/authentication/?authentication=saas) (with at least "Get" and "Create" scopes for "Web Modeler API").

> 2Camunda can also be used to orchestrate your process development lifecycle (PDLC), covering all steps from change reviews to release activities.. Click on "Create" and create a connector secret `WEB_MODELER_CLIENT_ID` and `WEB_MODELER_CLIENT_SECRET` in the cluster you want to use the blueprint in and set the values to the "Client ID" and "Client Secret" respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Camunda can also be used to orchestrate your process development lifecycle (PDLC), covering all steps from change reviews to release activities.. Click on "Create" and create a connector secret `WEB_MODELER_CLIENT_ID` and `WEB_MODELER_CLIENT_SECRET` in the cluster you want to use the blueprint in and set the values to the "Client ID" and "Client Secret" respectively.
```

The form will ask you for the following information:
- **Folder ID:** The ID of the folder you want to deploy to the target repository.
  You can find the ID in the URL of the folder in Web Modeler:
  ![Folder ID](./readme-screenshots/folder-id.png)
- **Repository URL:** The URL of the target repository.
- **Target Base Branch:** In the course of the blueprint, a new branch will be created in the target repository.
  This field specifies the base branch for the new branch.
- **Target GitLab Base URL:** The base URL of the GitLab instance. Defaults to `https://gitlab.com`.
- **Target GitLab Project ID:** The ID of the target project in GitLab.
  You can find the ID in the URL of the project in GitLab:
  ![Project ID](./readme-screenshots/project-id.png)

After starting a process instance, it will create a pull request with the contents of the target folder in the target repository.
When you merge the pull request, the folder contents will be deployed to the development environment via [the `deploy_to_dev` job within the pipeline](./gitlab-pipeline/.gitlab-ci.yml).

> To check the status of the process, you can always use [Camunda Operate](https://docs.camunda.io/docs/next/components/operate/operate-introduction/) to have a look at the status of the process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To check the status of the process, you can always use [Camunda Operate](https://docs.camunda.io/docs/next/components/operate/operate-introduction/) to track the status of the process.
```

> Operate should indicate with blue colored sequence flows the where to process went and mark the current activity with a green circle:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Operate should indicate with blue colored sequence flows where the process went and mark the current activity with a green circle:
```
